At least in the US, 50% of college
graduates this year will graduate either
unemployed or undermployed and credit
card debt is being outpaced by student
loan debt for the first time in history.
>> This is Ryan Rosslansky, CEO of
LinkedIn. He took LinkedIn from 7
billion to 17 billion in revenue and
crossed a billion members by [music]
betting big on AI, smarter hiring tools,
skills-based matching, and a [music]
massive push into video. LinkedIn is
that the definitive labor market
platform of the world. We have amazing
insights into actually what is happening
across the world.
>> His data doesn't predict the job market.
It is the job market. What about entry-
level jobs?
>> Entry- level jobs across the world right
now, the hiring rate that we see are
down roughly 12%. While we see that
hiring is sluggish across most markets,
the reason that it's sluggish doesn't
have anything to do with AI.
>> Do you think college is just kind of
fading away? And when I talk to people
about what they should do with their
career, it's less about where do you
want to be in 5 years and it's more
about over the next few months like what
new skills do you want to learn?
>> So what are the top skills people should
be adding to their LinkedIn right now?
>> This you know this huge demand on
>> Ryan thank you so much and welcome to
Silicon Valley girl.
>> Great to be here.
>> I am so happy to have you. So you're the
CEO of LinkedIn and also executive vice
president of Microsoft Copilot uh and
Microsoft Office and we're at Davos
today.
>> Yes.
>> So what is everyone talking about? I
think there's a lot of the things that
I'm seeing, but I think one of the
things that's probably most interesting
to you potentially is I think if we were
here maybe like three years ago, a lot
of the conversations we would be having
would be with traditional media. And
this year, it's amazing to see kind of
the creator influence like up and down
the prominade and kind of the role that
creators are playing in this new
economy. And you know, we see it on
LinkedIn. There's four million members
now that uh their official job title is
creator. And it's just amazing to watch
this kind of new industry explode to
where it is today, be recognized at
Davos, for example.
>> That is amazing and I'm happy to be part
of it. It's amazing to see starting 12
years ago and being a creator now is
just a huge huge difference. Uh what do
people say about AI? Do you think people
hear more positive or negative?
>> It's interesting. I think people are all
over the place because um their kind of
opinions are based on what they heard
from the last conversation. What I love
about LinkedIn is that as the
definitive, you know, labor market
platform of the world, we have amazing
insights into actually what is happening
uh across the world. And it's
interesting while we see that hiring is
sluggish, you know, across most markets,
the reason that it's sluggish doesn't
have anything to do with AI in our
opinion. It's actually more due to macro
conditions, um, interest rates, not AI.
As it relates to AI, we see something
totally different. There's actually been
almost, you know, 1.3 million brand new
net jobs on LinkedIn for AI roles like
data annotators. Um, over 600,000 new
data center jobs uh exist on LinkedIn.
Um, you know, for deployed engineers
that companies need to understand AI.
So, at least in terms of what we're
seeing in the LinkedIn data right now,
AI is a net positive addition to the job
market, not something that's detracting
jobs. That's great. But what what about
entry level jobs?
>> So entry- level jobs uh across the world
right now, the hiring rate that we see
are down roughly 12%. But they are not
disproportionate to any of the other
jobs. So they're down just as many much
as all the other jobs in the world. I
think kind of what I was saying before,
a lot of that contraction is due, you
know, large part to macroeconomic uh
kind of in kind of climate and interest
rates and, you know, um you know,
companies investing less in general. So
then the question becomes what do you
know any professional you know even
professionals do and you know we're
seeing kind of two trends emerge one the
the one that I said which is that um you
know micro entrepreneurship you know a
rise in creators which is that hey if if
the traditional path doesn't exist I
need to take my career into my own hands
uh and number two a real affinity now
towards trade roles and I think if you
go back a couple years ago um you know
people weren't as into these trade rules
as they are right now, but especially
kind of Gen Z sees as a much safer
option.
>> What do you mean trade uh like like
firstline jobs um you know typical like
trade roles not office jobs
>> and they see those as more resilient in
an AI world. These are the types of jobs
that AI probably won't take. Uh so we're
seeing more affinity towards that as
well.
>> Interesting. Have you seen like a huge
uptick in creator? uh like when people
put creator as job title
>> right now there are 75 million people on
LinkedIn that somewhere in their profile
say they're a creator and there's 4
million people that say they're complete
100% full-time job is creator so it's
fantastic and look at what you started
[laughter]
>> how do career paths change because you
also track people through their career
inside the company you start as I don't
know assistant and go up and up But
because um I think I heard you at one of
the conference talking that a lot of
people are hiring generalists now. So
you don't necessarily climb up the
ladder. You expand horizontally
acquiring new skills. Do you see that
trend as well?
>> So I think first and foremost the really
important thing like since the beginning
of LinkedIn the feature that is
requested most from members is show me
what a typical career path is supposed
to look like. LinkedIn you have all this
data. So if I want to become a CFO or a
CEO or an accountant or whatever, what
is the path that people take? And the
reality is in the data there is no such
thing as a linear career path. Like it's
all over the place. So the more that
people first and foremost recognize that
you have to take your career into your
own hands. There's no natural path that
exists that you just get on, I think is
is really really important. Right now
it's more important than ever though
because uh you know skills are changing.
The uh that the types of skills that are
necessary for a specific role on
LinkedIn have changed north of 25% you
know over the last couple years alone.
We expect they'll change by 70% by 2030
largely influenced by AI and new tools
and new ways of doing these professions.
So, um, you know, my, you know, I I
often when I talk to people about what
they should do with their career, it's
it's less about where do you want to be
in five years, and it's more about over
the next few months, like what new
skills do you want to learn? Because to
your point, these roles are flattening.
General lists are more and more where
people are going these days.
>> So, what are the top skills people
should be adding to their LinkedIn right
now?
>> It's funny, there's this, you know, this
huge demand kind of on both sides of the
spectrum. Obviously like AI literacy is
important and I think no matter what
your role your profession you know
familiarizing yourself with these tools
is a really really smart investment in
your own career you don't have to love
them you don't have to use them all the
time but just familiarizing yourself
putting yourself in the mindset that I'm
going to figure out how I can be better
at my job through AI is one thing so a
set of AI skills but just as important
on the other side are human skills
>> [snorts]
>> curiosity, creativity, courage,
communication,
uh, compassion, the ability to work with
other people, the ability to sit down
with someone and actually have a
conversation. You can't just be mired in
using technology in a bubble and be
successful. Uh, in a lot of work
settings, you have to be able to, you
know, disagree and commit with someone
to be able to communicate with someone
to help galvanize people to get
something done. So I think the key right
now is that combination of you know you
know learn those AI skills and then if
you got a way to be strong on those you
know you know more human skills they're
typically called soft skills. I think
that's a misnomer. They don't you know
soft kind of feels like it's less
important. I think they're more
important than ever.
>> You know what a lot of entrepreneurs are
putting off forever switching email
platforms because migrating everything
sounds like a nightmare. the setup,
transferring data, the risk of breaking
something when email drives 21% of your
sales, because it drives 21% of my
sales. This video is sponsored by
Omnisend, and here's what they offer.
So, basically, that platform has got
everything that matters. Automation,
flows, campaigns, segmentation, just way
better priced, and honestly easier to
use. Their customers see an average of
$79 back for every dollar spent. That's
one of the highest ROIs in email
marketing. Here's what I love. They have
free migration service. Omniscent
handles the entire migration for your
campaigns, contracts, automations, even
your SMS toll-free number. You literally
don't lift a finger. 247 support with
real humans. Even during migration,
you're never alone. Support reply under
four minutes. Same power, smarter price,
email, SMS, pop-ups, push notifications,
advanced segmentation without the luxury
price tag. It's powerful without
unnecessary complexity. The process of
migration is really simple. You fill out
the form. Omnisense team handles the
setup in three to five days. They store
connections, import contacts, they
transfer SMS and all the workflows. You
test everything while keeping your old
platform running, then switch when
you're ready. Support guides you through
all of it. So, if you've been staying on
a platform that's either too expensive
or too complicated, or both, this is
your sign to switch. Check out the link
in the description. Use code SVGirl30
for 30% off your first three months. All
right, now back to our interview.
>> When you talk about soft skill soft
skills, as someone who hires on
LinkedIn, uh I don't really sort people
by like creative, whatever, but I I read
their posts.
>> So, what I found really helpful in
hiring is that now we hire based on
content that they post because it shows
their personality. It shows how deep
they are in the subject. We just hired a
YouTube strategist who's amazing
>> and we hired them him purely based on
what he was posting about building a
YouTube channel.
>> I love that. So we we always thought
that um the extension of your LinkedIn
profile isn't just where you went to
school, where you've worked, what skills
you have, but the ability to demonstrate
the actual knowledge that you have in
your head like by posting on LinkedIn.
And it's awesome to hear that you use
that as a way to understand someone's
identity better.
>> Yeah. You don't have to jump on a call.
You don't have to do anything. You just
read the posts. Yeah. Saves a lot of
time.
>> So people post more on LinkedIn. That's
what
>> also like as someone who started posting
actively on LinkedIn last year.
>> Yeah.
>> And we made something that's equal to
like a full-time salary just on
LinkedIn. We grew from like 10,000 to
50,000. Almost 50,000 in a year.
>> Wow. Congratulations.
>> So it's LinkedIn is definitely the
social network right [laughter] now.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you for that. By the way, any tips
to grow on LinkedIn? You know, LinkedIn
is unique because our platform exists to
create economic opportunity for every
member of the global workforce. Our feed
exists as a mechanism to showcase your
identity. Exactly the story that you
just told so that if I'm trying to get
hired or I want to make a name for
myself in a specific field, the content
that I share is a way to do that. Other
platforms tend to stem from you know uh
their vision is around you know
entertainment or uh you know large
engagement. Our largest business is in
recruiting. Um so we don't come at it
from a perspective of you know we're
trying to help you get you know a
gazillion likes or you know 10 billion
views or something like that. We're
trying to help you create authentic
content that only you can do based on
the skills that you have, what you have
in your head, get that on the platform
to the right people who may be able to,
you know, uh, learn from that or do
something with it or hire you because of
it. And that's where we find success.
So, I think that that's just a different
mindset that we always tell people about
using LinkedIn. Um, you may not get, you
know, the views you get on so many other
platforms, but the people you reach, the
quality of the audience, the
opportunities that come are what we're
really trying to do.
>> You get the right views. Also, what I
noticed as a creator, telling your
personal stories, especially if they're
tied to some events,
>> Yeah.
>> really, really helps grow.
>> I think it's interesting. I mean, I
think especially
um, you know, more in the younger
generation, it always kind of felt taboo
to talk about anything that felt, you
know, not buttoned up and professional
on LinkedIn. But, but more and more, I
think the next generation, um, not only
are they okay with it, but it actually
tells a lot more about who they are,
their personality, what they know, how
they think. Um, it's really kind of
refreshing to see that happen on
LinkedIn.
>> Absolutely. Let's go back to our
LinkedIn profiles. There's a huge
section, education, right? And a lot of
people would take like top university
small courses just to have that name,
right? Because it meant a lot. Do you
think college means as much these days
or because we can acquire any skill
online is just kind of fading fading
away?
>> So two things. One, um
I dropped out of college very early on
and was really focused on the skills
that I needed to start a company and be
an entrepreneur. So I had kind of a
mixed view on that. Um, I do know right
now, at least in the US, 50% of college
graduates this year will graduate either
unemployed or undermployed.
And credit card debt is being outpaced
by student loan debt for the first time
in history. So, there's something that's
not really working in the current
system. I am nowhere close to going so
far as to say college isn't worth it.
the social experience, the learning to,
you know, the soft skills and you being
able to be around people and
communicate, I think are critical. And
if you can, you know, if you're
fortunate enough to be in a college
environment to have that experience, I
think it's really, really worth it. But
I think that it's really more about a
lot of those soft skills um for most
professions than the typical hard skills
that we always thought about from
college in the past. And more
importantly, you know, more and more now
when recruiters or anyone looking to
hire on LinkedIn or starting their
process, they aren't looking at what
school did you go to. They're looking at
what skills do you have or what did your
last post look like so I know more about
you. So, it's it's mattering less than
it has in the past, what what school you
went to.
>> Are you still betting on college for
your daughters? Because I have three
daughters, right?
>> Absolutely. And I think again I think a
lot of the social um you know components
of that are critical. It's a great place
to learn how to grow up um to learn how
to interact with other people um you
know to form a network um to make
mistakes. And so um you know while I
never mandate anything that any of my
children do you know so far at least my
oldest one like that's the career path
that that that she's taken and she's
having a wonderful time.
>> Have you ever regretted dropping out?
>> I think I missed a lot of really fun
years by leaving college early. That's
for sure.
>> All right. That's yeah still still a big
question. Yeah.
>> So, you are releasing a book, Open to
Work. Can you talk about how someone can
use this book to navigate their future?
I feel like you're the best person to
write this book, by the way, because you
have all the data. You're seeing what's
happening on the market and yeah, I'm
looking forward to reading it.
>> Thank you. So, it's been actually kind
of unique because I've spent 25 years
building, you know, internet products
where you can build a product and test
it out with people and see what happens
and then change it really quickly. when
you write a book, you write it and it's
kind of final and you hope and you know
pray that it goes out there and people
find value out of it. So, we're excited
to release uh it soon, but it's a book
that was written to help people really
understand and bring some clarity to
what career paths look like in an AI
first world. There's a lot of
uncertainty. I think people are scared.
They don't know where to start. They
don't know where to turn. [snorts] This
book acts as a guide to help you
understand how to think through it. What
AI can do, what AI can't do. um the
importance of the human skills that that
we just talked about um and how you can
you know kind of pull those two things
together and figure out what you want to
do with your career and make the best
career path for yourself. um you know
it's not a crystal ball but you know
it's we try and leverage a lot of the
things that we know and see on LinkedIn
to help people make right career
decisions because it's so difficult
especially when you're starting out to
to know what to do or how to think and
right now there's just so much you know
unique craziness in the world of you
know what does AI mean for jobs and and
roles and skills so at the end of the
day if we can help more people make
smarter career decisions like that's
what we're aiming to do and we do that
every day through LinkedIn But we wanted
to try something different approach as
well uh for people who maybe aren't on
LinkedIn or just you know want to kind
of see it in the book form. So
>> is there a principle from that book that
you can share that people can use to
guide their careers?
>> I think most importantly a lot of what I
see on LinkedIn are people just
absolutely hyperfocused on um the hard
skills, the AI skills, the technical
skills and they're completely dismissing
the human skills. So we talk about it in
five C's that we think are critical for
you to learn and to master that will
make you stand out in the future.
Curiosity, courage, creativity, uh
compassion, and communication. Like
learning and understanding the
importance of those five skills uh are
where I would invest the majority of my
time right now as a professional. It's
interesting because we have a lot of
tools on how to develop our hard skills,
but when it comes to curiosity, how do
you even acquire?
>> So, it's hard. I mean, some people are
fortunate enough to be born with it.
Yeah. Um, but you know, we do a lot
through LinkedIn learning to also help,
you know, through the data that we have
to, you know, teach techniques and how
to think about a lot of these soft
skills.
>> People think they can't be learned, but
they actually really can be learned.
They need to be practiced like any other
skill. But, um, again, I think it's kind
of that misnomer that soft means it
wasn't as important. and just kind of
bringing that to the forefront I think
is the most important thing right now.
>> If you're watching this, you are
probably thinking about growing your own
LinkedIn profile. Here's what we found.
The people crushing it aren't guessing
what to post. They have a system. That's
why we built a free database of 300 post
ideas. It's literally 300 readytouse
post ideas you can use across your
LinkedIn right now. We organize the
ideas based on audienc's segment, type
of content to use, whether it's an image
or text or video. Frequency because you
can post one idea multiple times and
even time needed to create. If it sounds
good to you, we're giving it for free to
my inner circle newsletter subscribers,
which is again, it's free to subscribe.
Link is in the comments. Grab it and
you're set for the next year of content.
I've heard someone say uh in the next 5
to 10 years you either become an
entrepreneur maybe with a new niche or
you die. What would you say like die as
a
>> I hope that's not the case. [laughter]
>> Um I absolutely expect that AI is going
to uh democratize access to opportunity
in a way that so many people that have
always wanted to create something or
start something um build a business be
an entrepreneur will have the tools to
do it. Um I don't think it's going to be
the only path but I do think we will see
many many more entrepreneurs and I think
that's a really really good thing.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Me too. Can you uh give me
you think top three jobs for the next
three year three to five years and
>> top three as defined how
>> uh most in demand.
>> So right now um there's a role called
data annotator. You know what this is?
>> No.
>> It's fascinating. So um anytime you use
a large language model
um at the end of the day the way that
those models keep getting better and
better are there are many human beings
that are you know being paid to evaluate
the output of those models based on
their expertise. So, you know, maybe
you're a I don't know, a cardiologist is
your full-time job in in in like, you
know, the real world, in the real life,
but um you know, a large language model
company is trying to make their model
better for people who are asking
questions around heart health.
>> They will take the response that the
model's giving, actually hand it to, you
know, the cardiologist and pay them to
say, "Mark this up, you know, is this
right or wrong? What do you and then
take that and put it back into
huge companies that sourcing those
people to.
>> Exactly. And so that role is
>> I mean if you think about like every uh
you know topic, every niche topic, every
language like has to be covered through
these models and there's so much
knowledge in people's heads that um I
think that's going to be a really really
um you know hot job moving forward. I
also think anything that has to do with
building uh out data centers and these
are all types of jobs. These are you
know trade jobs, these are hyper
techchnical jobs. These are you know
maintenance jobs um but building the
infrastructure of data centers moving
forward I think is going to be critical
because in order for anything that's AI
related to actually flourish there's a
foundation that needs to be put in
place.
>> And then the last one I'm paying a lot
of attention to um is [clears throat]
actually something which is called a um
you know a forward deployed engineer.
And that sounds like a really kind of
odd term, but basically what it means is
when a company decides that they want to
pull AI into their company, they want to
better use AI.
Uh it's really a tricky like thing to
figure out. And historically that was
kind of up to the IT department to
figure out. But this new role, you know,
a forward deployed engineer is someone
that will sit in the actual business in
the marketing department um in the
product department uh who is really
skilled at both business needs and
understanding how AI works to kind of
make that connection inside of a
company. So companies are frequently
hiring these people right now to help,
you know, not just make AI a cool thing
we put in our company, but actually help
it return real value to the business.
>> I love that.
>> And creator, that's my fourth really
important job. Sorry.
>> Thank you so much. Thank you. [laughter]
I feel like we're on the rise this year.
That's awesome. And do you think there
are any jobs maybe like three jobs that
you think are disappearing?
>> If you think about
everyone's job, your job, my job,
anybody's job, um ultimately it's a set
of skills and tasks. If you break your
job down like that and then you kind of
think about the ability for each task to
be automatable by AI, you can quickly
see that if your job is just a set of
tasks that can be automated, you need to
start finding a new job. So AI right now
is really good at things like
summarizing or um rewriting or
translating. So, you know, those types
of jobs where AI is good at those skills
are the types of jobs where, you know,
we both try and through our data help
LinkedIn members who have those jobs
realize, hey, here's some more skills
you should be adding, you know, to kind
of, you know, future proof yourself.
[snorts] But that's kind of the
framework to think through maybe where
jobs will be more impacted.
>> I love that. Thank you so much, Ryan.
That was so insightful. And I hope
everybody who just watched you go and
start posting on LinkedIn. I've been
telling this to everyone around me. My
husband started posting. He got a few
thousand subscribers right away. So, the
algorithm is really working. Thank you
so much again for being here. Thank you.